---
{
  "aliases": ["/writing/current-pet-project-command-line-fu"],
  "date": "2009-01-22",
  "title": "Current pet project: Command-Line-Fu",
  "description": "Creating a site for sharing commands",
  "slug": "current-pet-project-command-line-fu",
  "tags": ["commandlinefu"],
}
---

<img src="/images/screenshots/tomboy-commands-small.jpg" class="align-right" />

If you're anything like me, you spend a lot of time at the UNIX command-line
manipulating the filesystem, configuring Linux, playing with services and so
forth. As any UNIX user knows, tremendous power can be wielded through judicious
function selection, piping and output redirection. It's often quite staggering
what can be achieved in a single line given a rudimentary knowledge of sed,
grep, awk, cutâ€¦

Indeed, when I stumble upon a line of particular elegance or usefulness, I
generally log them to a [Tomboy note](http://projects.gnome.org/tomboy/) (fired
up in a flash using [Gnome-do](http://do.davebsd.com/)). This has proved
extremely useful as I am often returning to the list to recall how to, say,
rsync a fileset with an exclude list - it's generally faster than Googling or
going to the man pages. As time has progressed though, this small repository has
grown into a sizable collection and finding a particular command quickly is now
a problem. Motivated by this problem and taking inspiration from my daily
reading ([Hacker News](http://news.ycombinator.com/),
[Programming Reddit](http://www.reddit.com/r/programming/) and
[Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/)), I'm in the process of putting
together a lightweight web-app for cataloguing and ranking notable UNIX one
liners.

<img src="/images/screenshots/clf-small.jpg" class="align-right" />

The basic idea is for users to be able to store their useful one liners on the
site for (a) retrieval in the future and (b) sharing with others who undoubtedly
will need to save the same problem. Once created, these commands are parsed for
the functions used and any relevant tags to provide good navigational props. The
individual commands also be discussed and commented on. Further, users can vote
on each others commands allowing simple leaderboards to be constructed. After a
few months, it will be interesting to see what the top 10 most useful awk
commands are.

It's only been a week (working piecemeal after dinner) but the site's nearly
ready for a beta release. It's constructed using a combination of CodeIgniter
and Zend Framework, making use of the fast and lightweight nature of CodeIgniter
coupled with the extensive range of components that ZF provides. The site's
called <http://www.commandlinefu.com> and should be live in about a week
assuming I find some spare time over the weekend. Watch this space.
