---
{
    "aliases": [
        "/writing/monitoring-mysql-with-ganglia-and-gmetric"
    ],
    "title": "Monitoring MySQL with Ganglia and gmetric",
    "date": "2008-12-14",
    "tags": [
        "mysql",
        "monitoring",
        "ganglia"
    ],
    "description": "A simple bash script for pushing MySQL stats in Ganglia",
    "slug": "monitoring-mysql-with-ganglia-and-gmetric"
}
---


<img src="/images/bookcovers/9780596102357.jpg" class="align-right" />

Following some server monitoring advice from the excellent 'Building
Scalable Web Sites' by Cal Henderson, I've recently been experimenting
with [Ganglia](http://ganglia.info/) on a cluster of servers at Tangent
Labs. It has proved to be deeply impressive and has given us a great
tool for keeping an eye on how our servers are performing, as well as
providing an invaluable diagnostic tool should things go wrong.

In essence, Ganglia is a distributed monitoring application that allows
statistics on a cluster of servers to be aggregated in a single place.
Moreover, an excellent web front-end is also provided to view charts of
the statistics being collected. You can view a [live demo of the Ganglia
monitoring application for the UC Berkeley Millennium
Project](http://monitor.millennium.berkeley.edu/) which shows exactly
what Ganglia can provide.

Out of the box, Ganglia collects basic server stats on load, memory,
CPU, network and disk. However, what makes it great is that it can be
easily extended to collect statistics on anything that you can measure
from the command line. There is a [repository of user-contributed
scripts](http://ganglia.sourceforge.net/gmetric/) although it's not that
extensive. In this post, I detail a script that can used to feed
statistics about MySQL into Ganglia for monitoring - something important
to any LAMP-stack application.

A few technical details first: Ganglia utilises three utilities to run
each with a distinct responsibility:

gmond

:   A daemon responsible for collecting monitoring stats and sharing
    them using XML over TCP. The gmond daemon runs on all nodes that you
    want to monitor.

gmetad

:   A daemon responsible for collecting and storing data from other
    gmetad and gmomd services. This only needs to be running on a
    single, central node.

gmetric

:   A command-line application used for using Ganglia to monitor custom
    metrics.

All very simple really - see the
[docs](http://ganglia.wiki.sourceforge.net/ganglia_documents) for the
nitty gritty. Ok, enough intro -here's my script for MySQL:

Â» [gmetric-mysql.sh (3.1kb)](/downloads/gmetric-mysql.sh)

It's written in Bash and uses a temporary file to read the MySQL stats
into before parsing and submitting to gmetric. This is done as many of
the MySQL stats of interest are cumulative counts rather than rates (eg
SELECTs per second) which are generally of more interest. Hence, the
script estimates the rate of change by dividing the value delta by the
timestamp delta.

To use this script, simply copy it into a convenient location, ensure it
is executable and add the following line to your crontab.

``` bash
* * * * * /path/to/gmetric-mysql.sh > /dev/null 2>&1
```

As soon as this is done, your Ganglia web front-end should start
plotting the new metrics.

![image](/images/ganglia-snapshot.jpeg)
